
A USIM (Universal Subscriber Identity Module) is the functional equivalent of
the SIM in a GSM device. It is the entity that stores subscriber-related
information and implements the security functions pertaining to authentication
and ciphering on the user side. A 5G SIM is a tamper-proof secure element,
which is the only solution to secure 5G network access. It has been specified
by the 5G standardization body ETSI-3GPP in Releases 15 & 16 UICC specifications
(UICC: Universal Integrated Circuit Card, better known as a SIM). It aims at
directly addressing the key 5G attributes: enhanced mobile broadband, massive
IoT, critical communications.

A USIM is a mini computer which is able to handle several mini applications,
for instance a contactless epurse for the subway/underground trains, a local
service portal giving you access to your phone bill, etc. With regards to
security, a new algorithm is integrated (derived from research in cryptology).
It protects you from unauthorized access to your phone line, and therefore to
be charged with fraudulent calls on your bill, your calls and data exchanges
are encrypted using keys computed by the USIM, and these keys are stronger
than those provided by SIMs.

The USIM also consists of a file system, which is like the SIM with a different
structure (file’s hierarchy positions). In addition, the USIM file system
introduced the ADF (Application Dedicated File), which is like a simple DF but
related to an application (usually SIM or USIM). In addition, the USIM also
introduced the TLV (Tag Length Value) responses and structure. The TLV is
(as the name applies) consists the tag, the length and the value of the
information element needed to be passed as a response or saved as data.


This usim library provides interface between any user application and usim
driver which runs in linux kernel. This library is provided with sample APIs
which can be used to read, write or modify any files present under USIM file
system on SIM card for both 4G and 5G applications.
